---
author: anthony@authenticgrowth.com
comments: true
date: 2014-09-27 16:54:52+00:00
layout: post
permalink: /tapping/
slug: tapping
title: 'Emotional Freedom Technique: A Tool For Healing Your Past'
wordpress_id: 729
categories:
- EFT
- Energetics
- Personal Growth
- Psychology
- Writing
tags:
- be free of emotions
- EFT
- Emotional Freedom Technique
- Feel Better
- Freedom
- Get Over Negative Feelings
- Get Over Negativity
- how to control emotions
- how to do EFT
- how to do Emotional Freedom Technique
- how to free your emotions
- how to free yourself emotionally
- how to get over the past
- how to release emotions
- How to tap
- Neutralize Negativity
- Overcome Negative Feelings
- release negative memories
- Release Negativity
- Remove Negative Feelings
- Tapping
- tapping eft
- tapping emotional freedom
- What is EFT
- what is emotional freedom technique
---

After chatting with EFT Founder Gary Craig in a **[previous post](http://www.authenticgrowth.com/eft-gary-craig/)**, I decided it was time to do a write-up on EFT itself. I can't begin to say how much this technique has changed my life. I first discovered tapping, also know as Emotional Freedom Technique, back in high school. It wasn't until the summer after my freshmen year in college that I really took the practice to heart. The technique involves tapping on a series of points on your upper body about 7-10 times while thinking of a past memory, experience, or feeling which upset or distressed. After going through a series of statements that keep you focused on the negative experience, the negative association to that memory begins to fade away as you do several rounds of tapping on these points.

The idea relates to Chinese energy meridians, suggesting that all negative emotional attachments have a corresponding disruption in our body's energetic system. As you tap these points on your body, which correlate to the ends of meridian lines, you clear the disruptions that emerge as you relate back to that old experience and you correct the energetic disruption.

Sounds like a lot of hogwash, right? Well, you don't have to believe the above paragraph to give it a try and see what the results are for you. When I first heard about it in high school I didn't take it seriously, which is why it took me 2 or 3 years to revisit it again. I will never forget the summer that I got back into using it.

I made it a daily practice that summer to write out a list of all the experiences in my life where I felt I was "wronged" or that things weren't fair. I wrote out all the experiences I could think of where I felt I was hurt, anything traumatic I could envision, and any memory that popped into my mind that caused me to feel upset. I then went to work using this notebook and using the technique on everything, crossing off items from the list as I performed the technique.

What happened after I went through this entire list was just about a complete change in my personality to one where I was much less reactive and things stopped getting to me as much. Life became easier after I tapped on all of these old memories. This is why I say this technique changed my life. After tapping on all of those traumatic experiences, I literally changed the trajectory of my future. The way I experienced life was different, the filters that I view the world through were altered, and my life was unimaginably changed.

**Below, I share the basics of the technique with you. There are 12 main points to this technique, easy enough that a 10-year old can learn them.**<!-- more -->

First, think back to a time when you were really upset about something from your past. Rate that distress or upset on a scale of 1 to 10, with 10 being the most discomfort and 1 being the least discomfort. Hold onto that memory and follow the steps below.



 	
  1. **Tap the KC point,** located just in the center of the outer _edge_ of your palm if you make a karate chop with your hand, while saying this statement:
"_Even though (This happened), I deeply and completely love and accept myself_"
Say this statement three times while tapping the KC point.

 	
  2. **Start on the Eyebrow point,** on the inner bridge where either of your eyebrows connects to your nose. Tap 7-10 times while FEELING and holding onto the unpleasant event.
**Note: **State a reminder phrase to keep you focused, such as "I was wronged" or "This unpleasant feeling", while tapping each of these points.

 	
  3. **Tap the side of the eye point,** on the outer edge of either eye socket, while repeating your reminder phrase and feeling the old experience.

 	
  4. **Tap the under the eye point,** on the center point right underneath either of your eyes, while repeating your reminder phrase and feeling the old experience.

 	
  5. **Tap the under the nose point,** on the center point located literally between your nose and your mouth, while repeating your reminder phrase and feeling the old experience.

 	
  6. **Tap the chin point,** on the center point between your lower lip and the bottom of your chin, while repeating your reminder phrase and feeling the old experience.

 	
  7. **Tap the collar bone point,** located on either side of the center of your collar bone, while repeating your reminder phrase and feeling the old experience.

 	
  8. **Tap the edge of the thumb point** while repeating your reminder phrase and feeling the old experience. This point is located on the edge of your thumb that is pointed towards the ceiling if your palm is facing your body.

 	
  9. **Tap the edge of the index finger point** while repeating your reminder phrase and feeling the old experience. This point is located on the same side as the thumb point, the edge pointed towards the ceiling if your palm is facing your body.

 	
  10. **Tap the edge of the middle finger point** while repeating your reminder phrase and feeling the old experience. Like the points above, this point is located on the edge of your middle finger, the edge pointed towards the ceiling if your palm is facing your body.

 	
  11. **(Skip the ring finger) Tap the edge of the pinky** while repeating your reminder phrase and feeling the old experience.  Similar to the points above, this point is located on the edge of the pinky, the side that faces the ceiling if your palm is facing your body.


**You can finish off the process by tapping the center of the top of your head, while repeating your reminder phrase. Take a deep breath and think back to the experience. Re-rate your experience now. Has your experience been altered? If it only diminished a bit, here are a few tips:**



 	
  1. Truly focus on the experience. You cannot be distracted while tapping on these points, it will only work if you are holding onto the feeling while you tap these points.

 	
  2. Use a reminder phrase to keep you in the feeling of this experience.

 	
  3. Be sure to do the Karate Chop Point (Center outer edge of your palm) first while saying the forgiveness statement, as your issue can be a deeply rooted experience that this point helps remove to start the process.

 	
  4. It does not matter which side of the body you tap on, both are identical in the Chinese meridian system.


Now in my experience, it is all about finding a specific event or memory to tap on, and not just an unpleasant feeling itself. Using EFT founder Gary Craig's own words:

**"_You do not want to tap on the symptom, you want to tap on the event that CAUSED the symptom_"**

This is a basic run-through of a simple, free, and easy technique that permanently changed my life. I continue to use it every so often on old memories that pop up out of my subconscious. I've used it so much, that I don't really have many old memories that upset me anymore. All of them have been driven down to the point of feeling like a level of 1-3 on the rating scale we've used. This is my goal with using EFT, to reduce the impact that unresourceful memories have on my present experience.

**Here is the first EFT video I ever watched around 7 years ago. Give it a try now:**

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6i33V2EcVlY

I hope this technique has helped you. EFT has changed my life, and I still use it to this day.

**Links for learning more about EFT and Tapping:**



 	
  * [**Transform Your Beliefs, Transform Your Life**](http://amzn.to/1BQzfkJ) by Karl Dawson

 	
  * **[Energy Tapping](http://amzn.to/1B5EaOG) **by Fred Gallo


