---
author: anthonydgallo@gmail.com
comments: true
date: {}
layout: post
link: 'https://www.authenticgrowth.com/pu-erh-tea/'
slug: pu-erh-tea
title: 'Coffee Alternatives: My Pu-Erh Tea Habit'
wordpress_id: 2695
categories:
  - Health and Fitness
  - Personal Growth
tags:
  - benefits of po er tea
  - benefits of pu erh
  - benefits of pu erh tea
  - health benefits pu-erh
  - how to stop drinking coffee
  - po-erh
  - pu er tea
  - pu erh healthy
  - pu-erh
  - pu-erh benefits
  - pu-erh cha
  - pu-erh tea
  - puer tea
  - puh-erh
  - replacing coffee with tea
published: true
---

_**"All true tea lovers not only like their tea strong, but like it a little stronger with each year that passes." – George Orwell**_


I used to love a good cup of coffee. I didn't think much of coffee when I was younger - but when I entered the work force it was taken for granted that everyone expected to have at least one cup of coffee while they went about their day. I quickly joined that force as I found coffee helped me wake up in the mornings and focus more on my work. One cup in the morning quickly turned into another afternoon cup, and sometimes a third for good measure. I didn't see anything wrong with this - until, that is, I started having some pretty severe stomach acid problems.





### **The Dark Side of The Dark Roast**


Now this was something that came as a total surprise to me. Everything I had read suggested coffee has numerous health benefits, which it does, but nothing I had read really stuck out the fact that coffee is a highly acidic drink that can cause problems on it's own. All of the coffee I was drinking started to influence stomach acid production in my body - slowly eating at my digestive lining. I needed to kick the habit but I was so used to drinking a few cups a day that I was determined to find an alternative route.


### **In Comes Pu-Erh - A Tea Worthy of Your Ex-Coffee Mug**


Right around this time, I had finished listening to an episode of the Tim Ferriss Show podcast where he mentioned a new blend of Pu-erh tea he was testing with a few other ingredients. I had heard people mention Pu-erh a few times but I thought - "Tea? Meh there's a million teas, that one probably is just like all the others." I'll admit I had wanted to try something new though, so I went and bought some [Pu-erh Tea](http://amzn.to/2rFC0VU) from my local 99 Ranch market. My first reaction was that this stuff was pretty good. My second reaction was - I think I've found what I need to kick the habit.


### **Think Of Yourself As A Non-Coffee Drinker**


The first step to kicking the coffee habit, if you want to do it entirely, is to consider yourself a non-coffee drinker from the start. Many self-development books reference the idea that "100% is easy, 99% is tough." By this they mean that if you commit to changing a habit 100% of the time, instead of "just sometimes", you are way more likely to succeed. That's what this tip is about here - just wake up on day one and say "I'm a non-coffee drinker" and start your trials in the pu-erh tea arena. You'll of course want to get extra rest the night before - caffeine withdrawal is a very real thing, but that isn't to say that you can't supplement with a little bit of [green tea](http://amzn.to/2r6X0rw) to help.


### **Lower Cholesterol, Improve Your Digestion, Reduce FAS (Fatty Acid Synthesis)**


You read that heading correctly. There are numerous studies on [nlm.nih.gov](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20641056) touting the benefits of [Pu-erh Tea](http://amzn.to/2rFC0VU) for improving several key ailments that affect many people in the Western world. I personally drink a cup of Pu-erh in the morning and usually after lunch if I am in the office. I find that after a meal, Pu-erh Tea really helps me stay awake and though this is anecdotal I can definitely attest improved digestion aspects of these studies. I feel that Pu-erh helps prevent blood sugar spikes if I drink it shortly after eating a meal at my desk. I'm not a doctor of course and can't say whether you will feel the same, but I can say that drinking Pu-erh tea is worth a shot based on the research available. I've personally convinced 3 other colleagues to buy a box and they love it.


### **Be A Little Different - And Watch As Your Health Improves**


Pu-erh tea has officially helped me kick coffee for the last 4 months. With the concept that I am a "non-coffee drinker" in mind, I have thoroughly corrected my stomach acid issues and probably saved quite a bit of money by not having anything to buy when I pass a Starbucks or Dunkin Donuts. It's amazing that you can go from 2 or 3 cups every single day to 0 cups a week and still function at the same or an even higher level. That's what I've discovered since I stopped drinking coffee and started drinking [Pu-erh Tea](http://amzn.to/2rFC0VU), and I know you too can discover it for yourself.

**-Anthony From AuthenticGrowth.com**
